From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number two 68. Recorded live
Thursday, May 26th, 2011. Support for Hansel
minutes is provided by Telerik
rad controls, the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web applications
online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode, Scott
is interviewed by Ray bingo
about his personal systems of
organization. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes. And today
we're turning the tables a
little bit. I've got my
buddy Ray Pango from the
jQuery team and Microsoft on
the, on the call here.
And he's going to interview
me because I wanted something
to, to share and I
needed a, a, a foil
to help me do it.
How's it going? Right. I'm
glad it's. That's good. So,
Scott, you know, there's one
question that that is always
kind of it's, you're, you're
a bit of an enigma
in this sense, because you
work remotely obviously, and, but
you get so much done.
You're involved a lot of
different projects and a lot
of projects are very high,
high profile and indefinitely high,
high importance. And so I
think one of the things
that I'd love to know
about is what are your
personal systems of organization? How
do you keep track of
all the things that are
going on in your life?
How do you keep things
organized? How do you manage
all these different projects that
are going on? Cool. That,
that, that is in fact,
the question I wanted you
to ask, how, what a
coincidence, and I'm also interested
in how you do it
as well, because I'm always
talking to people. I'm always
interviewing people and I'm always
even talking to strangers. If
I meet somebody on a
plane, I want to know,
well, gosh, you know, you
seem organized, how are you
doing that? You know, sometimes
it's a to do dot
text on their desktop, which
is a good system. Sometimes
I see them in one
note or Evernote. My system
is always changing. I actually
had the idea for doing
a show like this and
talking about it because I
was looking at a blog
post that I did in
September of 2005. So this
is over six years, almost
six years ago. And this
blog post was called personal
systems of organization. And it
was basically some people at,
at a conference. I was
at noticed that I was
writing some stuff down and
they were teasing me because
I wasn't using a Palm
pilot, whatever we were using
in 2005, I was writing
stuff down and I call
it sinking to paper. For
me, I'm finding that the
more chaotic my life gets,
the more unorganized my life
gets. I always seem to
turn to a piece of
paper for that kind of
kinesthetic feel that, that, that,
that sense of actually pushing
ink around and reminding myself
of what's important. So while
I have a number of
digital formats, I use one
note. I recently switched from
Evernote and I'll talk about
that more and more. When
it comes down to getting
my day done, I use
a piece of paper and
I'll carry it around. And
I use a, what's called
a molar Skeena it's spelled
moleskin, M O L E
S K I N E.
But it's pronounced Moschino. I
believe I've got a little
one in a pink one,
a little one goes in
my back pocket with a
space pen. You know, Joe,
at the funeral, you give
a space pen, you know,
with her face, man. Oh
my friend. So the space
pen. So the joke is
that that America, that NASA
went in general, you know,
created this amazing pressurized pen.
It's called the Fisher space
pen. And it's, it's about
the size of your, your
middle finger. And when you
open it up, it actually
doubles in size and it
becomes a normal pen size.
And it's filled with a
pressurized container, like a co
two gas that makes the
contents under pressure, such that
you can write on underwater.
You can write upside down,
you can write on oil.
It's just, it's an amazing,
perfect pen. And it was
like $40 million worth of, you
know, thing in order for
us to write in space,
it's called the space pen
and what are the Russians?
Do they use a pencil?
Okay. That makes a lot
of sense. They broke it
down and just went back
to him. Yeah. So that's
the classic, but I love
my space. Ben, it's the
best little Bestival pen. And
it's great about it is
that it's tiny. Like I
say, it's about the size,
your middle finger. So the
space pen and the Moschino
are in my pocket. And
that's the, I just had
an idea because I think
I don't know about you
and I'm interested in your
opinion as well. The most
important aspect of keeping organized
is being able to take
whatever you're doing at the
time and things that come
up and if something comes
up, capture it. Because I
think that there's the getting
things done aspect of, of,
of personal systems organization, but
then there's the capturing stuff
as it happens. Like what
if my wife called me
right now get milk? Where,
where are you going to
put that right now? Your
wife calls in the middle
of our show and says,
get milk. What do you
do? Right. So what I
do is I, I open
up my windows phone seven,
of course, and I, I
use a, an application called
notes Lee, and it's great
for that because I can
just whip it out and
say, I'm going to type
in my, to do disc
list. And I just cross
them off as I go.
And it's funny, you mentioned
that my wife who uses
a Blackberry at the moment
has become totally addicted to
Blackberry's task manager for managing
her life. A lot of
the things that you're mentioning
to me really, really resonate
with the way that she
handles her. You know, some
of the things that she
has in her life as
well, she's, she's very busy
with her job. So if
she doesn't keep things very
organized and very task driven,
it's, it's tougher to keep
track of obviously her job,
obviously the family life and
especially the baby. For me,
I definitely like to have
pen and paper, like to
have like a pad sitting
on my desk that says,
these are the tasks that
I need to accomplish today.
And I scratched them off.
And some people might think
that I'm a little bit
old school, Matt, but I
just find that having that
pen and paper makes things
substantially easier for me. And
I compliment that with Outlook's
task management capabilities, but for,
I just find pen and
paper to be a better
organizational method for me. Right,
right. Exactly. There's something, there's
something about it. Now of
course, the number one thing
in any personal system of
organization is you have to
trust it and you have
to be happy with it.
So don't necessarily take someone
else's like, if, if I've
got a good system and
you're listening to the show
or Ray's got a good
system, don't take it and
enforce it. If it doesn't
feel right, then pick another
system. And GTD was, was
that for me as well,
by the way, I actually
read the GTD book and,
and tried to implement it.
It just didn't work for
me. It didn't feel natural.
And so I I've had
to kind of build a
hybrid of different systems that
make it, make it effective
for me. Right. GTD of
course being David Allen's getting
things done book. So the
first thing first step of
a personal system of organization
is being able to capture
things that happen. So always
have something on your person,
whether it be a phone
or whether it be a
piece of paper or whatever,
always have a pen, always
have a paper, always have
a phone, something that do,
if you have an idea
that whole kind of, Oh,
I just woke up and
I had a dream and
I want to write it
down or I was in
the shower and I solved
this coding problem. So, so
important. Now, from that point,
I break things up into
short term, like extremely short
term, like, what am I
going to do in the
next few days, short term,
like a week to a
month from now and then
longterm, like, what am I
doing for, for the next
year for me, I like
to have this. I'd like
to visualize myself moving through
time, moving through the course
of a year. I don't
know how that's one of
hard to explain, but I've
always had a very conscious
sense of where I am
within the calendar year. Does
that make sense? Like, I
think about it as like
a giant progress bar. Like
I know that we're in
may right now and entering
June. So I have this
sense of us in the
center slightly to the left
of this, this progression that
is the year, you know
what I mean? And so
then I want to know
like, well, where am I
going to be when, when
I'm kind of about here
and kind of about there
and kind of about there,
you know, everyone, everyone needs
to have a conscious awareness
about how their mind naturally
thinks and wants to think.
And then you make your
system work for that. Like,
for example, using that, that,
that sense of movement through
time, that really helps me.
I don't like digital watches
because they only tell me
where I'm at right now.
And there's no way to
look at a digital watch
and know like what three
o'clock would feel like, or
that sense of distance between
one 30 and three o'clock.
You know what I mean?
Right. And that's, that's pretty
far out there. It's got,
I never gave it that
much thought, but that's, that's
actually pretty, it Was a
little kind of a, you
know, everyone was like, okay,
now it's, God's going to
do yoga on a podcast,
but, but, but in all
seriousness, there's, there's two interesting
things there. I think first
is a conscious awareness of
how, how I think about
time and how time moves.
And I like to look
at the clock, the analog
clock and say, okay, it's
like, you know, right now
it's about nine 30. And
I have a sense of
the, of this amount of
space, the amount of time
between now and noon. And
then I chop that time
up and I like to
use the Pomodoro system. If
you're familiar with the Pomodoro
system, I've never heard of
the Pomodoro system. So Pomodoro,
if I understand correctly is
like Italian for tomato and
a Pomodoro system. If you
go up and search for
it, you can get the
free book. There's this tomato
timer. It's like an egg
timer. It's just shaped like
a tomato and they use
it in Italy and around
Europe. And you set it
for 25 minutes. So think
of a Pomodoro as a
unit of time, like a,
you know, just like a
minute or a second over
Pomodoro. So Pomodoro is 25
minutes and then think about
your tasks and how many
Pomodoros it will take to
do your task. So for
example, you know, when we
get off the Mister, let
me look at my list
here. When we get off
the call here, I have
to go and do some
work and, and Bronco on
the asp.net website. Right? And
it's probably gonna take me
about an hour. So I'm
going to say that's two
Pomodoros. What's significant amount of
Pomodoro is that they are
Automic, meaning that the goal
of a Pomodoro and the
goal of focusing for 25
minutes is just that it
is to focus. Can you
sit down, mute this and
shut down outlook and do
everything to shut everything off
and only do one thing
sprint for 25 minutes without
interrupting yourself. That's the, that's
the idea of the system.
And then when you're done,
you say, all right, well,
I've just achieved one Pomodoros
worth of work. And what's
significant about that is it's
25 minutes. Then you have
five minutes for a break.
It's a half an hour
now, and then you do
another one. And the funny
thing is, and everyone should
try this challenge yourself to
do one task for 25
minutes without any internal or
external interruptions. And the goal
of the system is to
identify what are the internal
interruptions. That means where you
literally interrupted yourself and what
are the external interruptions? So
external interruptions are like, knock
on the door or phone
call some toast that pops
up on your screen. I
call that toast, you know,
the messenger toast and Skype
toast and Twitter toast and
out outlook toast. Those can
be external interruptions. Those can
be maintained and managed. And
that the Pomodoro system tries
to teach you awareness of
time and how you move
through it. So if you
sit down for 25 minutes
to work on the asp.net
website, Let's take a step
back because you made a
great point. I mean, how
do you, I think a
lot of people would love
to know how, how what's
the best way to manage
these type of distractions, these
things, these pieces of toast
pop up. Is it just
a civil matter of saying,
Hey, let's turn off. I
am during these 25 minute
sprints that we're doing, or
is there a better way
of handling it so that
let's say coworkers, aren't put
off. If you don't respond
to them in a certain
amount of time. Okay. That's
a good question. That's a
good question. So there's, there's
two things and it is
philosophy before it is in
practice. First, do this for
several days and write down
that an, that an interruption
occurred because you can't change
something unless you measure it
right. You can't change yourself
unless you're aware of a
problem. So what you do
is you just, there's actually
a form. You can print
out and do this. You
just put it next to
your desk. And every time
an interruption happens, you just
put a little tick Mark.
And you say, I tried
to work on the asp.net
website for one Pomodoro, and
I was interrupted externally seven
times. And then you do
this for a couple of
days. And you look at
that and you kind of
do it a little analysis
and you say, wow, I'm
getting interrupted on average 10
times every half an hour.
And remember that interruptions in
a computer system slow down
processing. I mean, you were
doing an interruption. It's like,
stop. Listen to me. I'm
IO. I'm, I'm more important
than actual work first, recognize
them. And then think about
what you're going to do
about them. So toast interruptions
are easy, you know, do
not disturb, shut down outlook,
shut down, Twitter, shut down,
whatever. What's great about an
idea like a Pomodoro is
it's only 25 minutes. You
know, you surely can go
25 minutes without like checking
your email, right? And if
you can't, then you definitely
have a problem or you're
a brain surgeon or something.
So I actually schedule meetings
with myself and then I
shut everything off. I mute
everything. And I do my
sprint That I actually, I
liked that a lot. I
haven't thought about that. That
technique is scheduling meetings and
blocking off a space so
that people understand that this
is, this is time that's
being consumed at the moment.
Please don't interrupt. That's actually
a very good idea. So
those are, those are external
interruptions. Those are recognizing that
and setting up external interruptions
just as if you were
managing a project, Pomodoro technique
is almost like a mini
scrum, right? Where your scrums
are 25 minutes long instead
of two weeks. And there's
only one person. So it's
like, imagine yourself, you're sitting
down at your desk. You're
like, all right, here we
go. Let's do it. You
turn the timer on, you
have the awareness of time.
And they actually prefer timers
that like tick, and you
can even find applications. I
bet you, if you look
in the windows phone, seven
works a, you know, a
marketplace. And I know there's
lots of an iPhone. I
bet you that you could
find a Pomodoro timer that
is focused on this system
of organization. And oftentimes there's
an, there's a ability to
make those things click so
that you get you're aware
of the passage of time.
So those are external interruptions.
Next are internal interruptions. And
I like to think of
interruptions as my, my left
thumb and my left middle
finger, because those are the
fingers that push all tab
without me thinking about it.
You know what I mean?
Like an internal interruption is
I'm in word and I'm
really rocking. And then suddenly
my middle finger and my
thumb all tab me over
to Twitter. And I'm like,
what was that? Who, what,
what beast took over my
hand and decided that we
needed to look at Twitter
right now. That's an internal
interruption and internal interruption could
be that it could be,
you're really focused. You're writing
your book and then suddenly
your brain is like, what's
on TV tonight. And it's
a hard problem. Hi, this
is Scott coming to you
from another place in time.
Are you using agile practices
to manage your software development?
There's lots of tools in
the market that manage the
steps of a project, but
most of them focus on
individual roles. Get ready for
a solution that caters for
the success of the whole
team. Guys at Tellerik introduced
team pulse. It's an agile
project management tool. That'll help
you gather ideas, estimate plan,
track progress in a common
workspace. Finally, companies, regardless of
their size can use a
lightweight and convenient tool. It
makes all the stakeholders work
as a United team, even
if they're in different countries
by combining intuitive user interface
and the power server light
team poles removes the roadblocks
that you typically face and
applying agile in an effective
manner, no more lost data,
no disparate systems, no lack
of critical analytics regarding the
health and philosophy project. See
if yourself, you get a
free copy for five users
in one project at tellerik.com/team
pulse. And please do thank
Tellerik for supporting Hansel minutes
on their Facebook fan page,
facebook.com/t L E R I
K Tellerik. We do appreciate
it. There wouldn't be a
Hansel minutes. If there wasn't
teller helping us. Some of
it, I feel like it's
almost muscle memory and you
all have is such great.
A great analogy to that
is, and I find myself
doing that as well. And
it's the all tab thing.
Hey, there's let me, I
haven't checked Twitter in last
15 minutes. Let me check
to see what's going on.
So I definitely get that
the internal ones are definitely
more difficult to control. So
how would you manage that?
So the, the, with all
things recognize it and then
take action. So to, to
notice that you're doing that
is step one, right? Knowing
is half the battle is
GI. Joe always said, once
you write this stuff down,
literally read the Pomodoro technique
book, write down that. Well,
you know, sure. I'm getting
interrupted externally 10 times every
half an hour, but you
might find you're, you're literally
interrupting yourself every minute. And
people have found this even
interrupting themselves as often as
a couple of times a
minute. I mean, think about
what kind of CPU could
really achieve any work at
all. If it's getting interrupted
so often and you have
to ask yourself, I've just
interrupted myself. I want to
go over to Twitter, but
is that moving the ball
forward? Because I find that
the Pomodoro system helps me
deal with that sense of
guilt that I think we
all feel. I mean, maybe
it's just me and maybe
it's just you and me,
but don't you ever have
that sense where you sit
down and it's nine o'clock
and you're ready to attack
the day. And you know,
you've got three things to
get done today and then
boom, it's 1130. Well, you
might as well go to
lunch. You really haven't done
anything. Then you come back.
It's too. Okay. Now you're
okay. With three 45, four,
well, four o'clock. Okay. I'll
work late. It'll get done.
And then I'll put the
kids down and then I'll
work until two in the
morning and then I get
stuff done. And then you
have that sense of guilt.
That sense that I really
got nothing done. And I
have absolutely no one to
blame, but myself today. I
think a lot of people
relate to that. Yeah. Tell
me, tell me, I'm not,
please, please re tell me
I'm not the only person
that feels Oh, of course
not Scott. I mean, it's,
I I've been through that,
so you're, you're definitely not
alone. And I can, I
would bank that 90% of
the people that will listen
to this will say, God,
I've been in that position.
Yeah. Well, I want to
bring that kind of out
in the open because that
kind of I've, I've accomplished
nothing. You've let yourself down.
And then what happens is,
and this is where we
get into dangerous situations. You
start to get angry, you
start to get frustrated, you
start to think I'm not
good enough. And you get
into self-loathing and all that
kind of stuff, because you
burned a day, right? First,
everyone burns a day where
you want to, where you
want to deal with it
as if you're burning every
day. You know what I
mean? And I find that
setting a sense of what's
a reasonable amount of work
I can get done. You
know how, when we do,
when we do scrums, if
you've ever done scrum or
agile, no one really, no
one says that a programmer
has eight really productive hours
in a day. Right? The
assumption when we do scrum
planning is that you have
between five and six productive
hours in a day, you
know, you gotta be gotta
factor in the bathroom and
go into McDonald's or whatever,
right? But you've got five
to six hours of productive
time. So why not say
I'm going to accomplish 12
Pomodoros worth of work. That's
12, 25 minute things with
breaks in my day. And,
and even if you have
to schedule email as one
of those things and then
make little sprints and you
would be surprised at how
much more productive that you,
that you feel. That's actually
a really good idea. I
haven't tried that. I'm actually
going to give that, that
shot. I'd like to learn
a little more about the
system, because it sounds like
it's, it's easier to manage
it. Well, they've always said
it's easier to manage smaller
compartments of anything, and it
is trying to tackle a
massive project all in one
shot. So compartmentalizing your, I
guess your, your daily schedule
makes a whole lot of
sense to me, Right? So
there's, there's, there's literally four
different systems that I use.
And I realized that everyone
has a system and like
everyone's selling something, right? But
there's so there's, there's Stephen
Covey and the seven habits
of highly effective people. He
talks about quadrants. Basically his
system is all about categorizing.
What's important. What's urgent. What
is both important and urgent?
What is neither urgent, nor
important, like trivial work like
Twitter, what is urgent, but
not really that important and
what is important, but not
urgent. And he tells you,
he separates them in quadrants
and says, you should, you
should work on things that
are important, but not urgent.
Like project work, those things
move, move. The world forward.
That's called the quadrant of
leadership. So Covey helps me
categorize time. Getting things done,
basically says, have a trusted
system take everything in your
life from, I need to
get a guy to paint
the house, which is something
I need to do to,
I have to do something
at work and put everything
in a trusted system. A
trusted system could be one
note or Evernote or outlook
or Omni giraffe or whatever
tool you like could be
a piece of paper, but
you have to literally empty
your brain of all things
that could potentially cause you
psychic weight. Like literally, well,
how can I work on
this book or this blog
post. If I'm thinking that
I really got call this
guy about the paint in
the house, if I put
it into a trusted system,
then I can release it
to the world. I don't
have to think about it.
So Covey for categorization, David Allen
and getting things done and
helps me think about things
like releasing things to the
world, then Pomodoro for actual
sprints. And then the, the
fourth system actually is a
buddy of mine named J
D Meyer who actually works
at, at Microsoft. And he
has a thing on his
website called called agile results.
And basically he takes the
agile system of organization and
applies it to yourself. I
think his website is getting
results.com. It's a free book
that you can download. It's
really cool. And what he
says is that you should
split up the things that
you need to do into
three things. That's basically like
every day. Remember when, when
I, when I was your
manager, we did this. Do
you remember this? Remember the
three things we would send
out in the beginning of
the week and the end
of the week. So the
idea is you, you write
down three things you want
to accomplish at the beginning
of the day, you write
down, you say, okay, if
this day, if nothing else
happens today, these are the
three things I need to
do. And then you do
them at the granularity of,
you know, here are three
things I could actually accomplish
today. Then you have three
things that would be nice
if I got done and
then three things, it probably
won't get done. And then
you do that on a,
on a daily basis, on
a weekly basis and on
a monthly basis and go
from there. And I've, I
keep those in one note,
I have a list of
the things that I really
want to get done today
and what, what would make
me feel successful if I
got those things done? And
that's the most important thing,
because the opposite of that
feeling of guilt and self
destruction and getting nothing done
is, well, tell me, it
was obviously pretty good day.
I know I got those
things done, those three things
I said I was going
to do. And he recommends
that you have a planning
session of, for yourself basically
in the, in the morning
on Monday. And then on
Friday, you reflect on on
the week. And this is
something I don't think people
do. They don't look back
on their week and say,
did I take it? That
stuff done? You know what
I mean? They just kind
of like, they have their
Friday and they just leave
and both getting things done
and getting results. Ha think
that there's is importance of
reflection of on Fridays. Well,
one of the good things
is that when, when you,
you asked the team to
start doing those, those three
bullet points that every Monday
was that you also reminded
us to kind of look
back at what you had
talked about accomplishing during that
week and, and also analyzing
what you accomplished, what was
the, the, the net effect
of that, and also why
you weren't able to accomplish
something. And, and, you know,
it didn't mean that you
were going to get in
trouble for not accomplishing something.
It just meant what was
the reason that you weren't
able to. And sometimes there
were actually very good reasons
that sometimes it was just,
you just didn't get around
to it. So it was,
it was a really good
exercise and I actually carry
that forward now. Yeah. I'm
glad, I'm glad that it's
still six around. We've actually
started using it a little
bit on the, on the,
on the new group that
I'm on and web platform.
And again, that's all that
getting results.com it's all free.
Or if you want, you
can buy the book and
get the dead tree. He
calls it the rule of
three, three, three outcomes for
the day three outcomes for
the week. And you have
a vision for your week,
calls it Monday, vision, Friday
reflection. So you say, here's
the things I'm going to
get done. And then on
Friday you reflect on it
and you say, well, here's
three things that I think
are going well. And here's
how I think I'm going
to improve. So what I
tried to do as a,
as a manager was collect
the three things that all
of you guys, I think
there were five or six
guys plus myself here that
we all have three things
we want to get done.
What can I, as a
manager do to get something
out of your way, right?
My job is to make,
make you successful. So I
look at your vision for
the week and I think
about what can I do?
And then at the, at
the end of the week,
I would have everyone send
out just three bullets. And
this is really important to
point out. I wasn't asking
for like a weekly report
of like pros and photographs,
and here's all the stuff
that we did this week.
I just want to know
what's going well and what's
not. And how can I
help fix whatever's wrong? Yup.
And now that was actually
a great thing. It, it
really just helped put, put
your, your workweek in perspective.
And again, I never felt
pressured. This is an end
of week report. I felt
like this is a tool
that's going to allow me
to better organize what I
was gonna accomplish in the
week. And with so many
things moving there, there's just
so many moving targets at
Microsoft. You need to have
that system in place. You
need to understand what are
your goals and how are
you going to reach those
specific goals. So I think
jotting down these specific tasks
and especially tasks that were
very strategic to your specific
role within Microsoft. Yeah. One
of the other things that
JD talks about, and I
think I should probably get
him on the show too,
to say better than I
can, but he has boundaries.
People are always asking about,
well, how do you have
like work life balance. He
calls him hotspots and he
says, you should set boundaries.
So for example, like your
body, are you working out
a minimum of like, say
three hours a week, you
should set mins and maxes.
Like he suggests, for example,
three at maximum minimum of
three hours a week spent
on your body working out
or, or stretching or whatever,
maximum of 50 hours on
career. He's like makes a
conscious thing. Like I will
not work more than 50
hours a week. Doesn't matter
what it is because I
know that anything over that
will cause me pain and
trouble and that stuff, a
minimum of eight hours on
relationships know that could be
a date night or, or
two date nights a week
or whatever, you know, and
by setting those mins and
maxes, you're kind of like
adjusting these progress bars on
your, on your life. And
you want to find that,
that, that sweet spot where
if these boundaries are maintained
and I'm, and I'm not
over taxing myself on career
or on relationships or on
whatever, then, then you get
to feel good about everything.
And the whole goal of
all these kinds of systems
kind of synthesized together is
just to not feel lousy
about yourself. Cause I that's
my biggest problem. I always
feel like a failure if
I, you know, work 55
hours that week or whatever,
and it didn't work out
at all last week. And
if I can put together
a system that will assist
me in not feeling lousy
about myself, then that's a
good system of organization. How
does the fact that you
travel quite a bit affect
your, your ability to stay
very organized? Well, when I
travel, like for example, I
was in Atlanta last week
and first I made sure
that everything at the house
and everything that the wife
and kids needed was done.
So that might mean, you
know, I'm leaving leaky faucets,
alarm system, you know, cameras,
all the different things around
the house. Batteries are charged,
iPads, work, kids have the,
what they need for school.
Is there any, you know,
basically, is there anything that
I can do upfront before
I go, that's going to
make their lives easier? I
do that first. And then
for me, I always, as
I'm going out the door,
I, I print out a,
a piece of paper that
actually shows where I'm supposed
to be. That's really important
to me to kind of
be aware where am I
supposed to be and remove
any potential areas of difficulty,
whether it be, you know,
finding, finding buses or trams
or getting off the plane,
making sure that, you know,
all that stuff. I, I
just, I can't be stressing
about that kind of stuff.
When I'm, when I'm traveling,
I travel to get the
job done and then come
back. I don't, I don't
like to dilly dally. You
know what I mean? Right.
For me when I travel,
one of the things that
I, I just, I feel
most comfortable with is having
a certain level of redundancy
in the things that I
need to accomplish. So I
do print out a lot
of stuff. I'll, I'll print
out my whole itinerary. I'll
print out a whole conference
schedule. I'll highlight the specific
key things that I want
to attend. But in addition
to that, I make sure
that on my phone, I
have everything that I wanna
accomplish because I need to
have that handy. I don't,
I don't want to be
reaching for a piece of
paper constantly. I want to
be able to immediately have
access to what I need
to do. And, and of
course, filling in my calendar
with key parts, things that
I need to attend is
to me, it's invaluable without
it. I just could not
function the way I needed
to. When I'm traveling, you're
away from home, you don't
have all your tools and
you need to leverage every
bit of functionality you have.
So that's, that's one of
the things that I do.
I, I will fill my
phone up with a ton
of information and I, and
the other part is I
don't necessarily depend on the
cloud. I think a lot
of people have become very,
very used to putting everything
into the cloud. But if
your cell phone doesn't work,
for some reason, you may
not have cell phone reception.
You're kind of out of
luck at that point. So
that's why I like to
have the redundancy of having
something stored locally. And I
have, I'd like to have
print copy of it. I'd
like to have very, very
set schedules. So it just
gives me that reassurance, that
things are going to go
the way I need it.
Yeah. It's funny. He actually,
one of the silly little,
a silly little, a silly
little tip that I came
up with on my own
last week was a, you
know, those, the airport, they
let you check in now
with an electronic barcode. So
they give you a link
in your email, you click
on it and then they
send you to a QR
code. And then suddenly you
can, you know, hold your
phone over the scanner and,
you know, check in. But
that only works if you
have a good connection. So
I started taking screenshots with
the phone. So when I
go up to the, up
to the gate to check
in, I'm not actually visiting
the website and fumbling around.
I've actually showing them a
photograph of the browser when
I did have connectivity. That's
great. I forgot. That's a
great idea. I love it.
Yeah. And then actually, a
Scott, Scott, Kate, a friend
of mine carries a camera
around and takes pictures of
everything, takes pictures of his
receipts, where he parked his
car, what floor he's on
and the, you know, w
and the hotel. I mean,
anything that he could potentially
get wrong or forget, he
takes a picture of which
I think is a really
good idea. Every receipt, anything
he could lose. He takes
a picture of, I've been
doing that lately with my
phone, Everything moves so fast.
God. And if you don't
take the time to do
these things, there's just no
way for you to manage
all the different aspects of
your life. It's just not
there. So I think that
the ideas that you've talked
about are, you know, they're
just fantastic. I'm definitely gonna
start looking at how I
can apply some of those
things to my work, my
work life, as well as
trying to balance out my,
my family lives too. I'm
glad it's a, it's, it's
a little unorganized and it's
always being changed. But I
think the real takeaway is
if we can help somebody
is have some kind of
plan, you know, it doesn't
have to be getting results.com.
It doesn't have to be
David Allen or Stephen Covey or
the Pomodoro system, but hope
is not a strategy, you
know, working heroically and working
harder. And trying to, if
I work, just work another
20 hours a week, then
I can catch up and
then everything will be okay.
That is not a strategy.
So as long as you
pick one and make it
work for you, and if
it doesn't work, pick something
else, then I think that
will be all right. But
thanks for, for helping me
out with the show today.
Right. I really appreciate it.
Thanks for having me. Alright.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week.